When power on, Bios(Firmware) starts up and loads up bootloader from boot-sector (so inside boot-sector, write bootloader, I'll use GRUB).
Now CPU will execute the bootloader, boot loader knows about partion tables/file system. And it reads <b>/boor/grub/grub.cfg</b> file.
It understands which OS lies in which partions of disk using this file
We have to tell bootloader to load our kernel binary file into the memory.
Now bootloader point the CPU to jump into the kernel. So whatever code writtend in the kernel binary it will be execauted. Which is our OS code
And while handling the CPU to ourKernel, bootloader wont sets CPU registers which are necssary to execute C binaries. (eg. stackpointer regester).
So create a loader.s (read loader.s documetntation)
once bootloader  runs, it hands over the CPU to kernel.cpp (2nd file to be runnend) (read kernel.c documenttion).

And the OS boots UP
Compiling loader.s gives loader object, kernel.cpp gives its own object file
to build we hv to link both objectfiles into file, which is done by linker (eg. ld)
----------More detailed------
When CPU starts, it starts in what is called "RealMode" where it runs everything in 16bit instrcutions
Firmwares are writtened in realmode to keep backward compitable. 
Once BIOS hands over to boorloader, bootloader will run in either 32bit or 64bit mode. Well it depneds on how you installed grub into the bootsector.
If you had installed x64 bit it runs in x64 or runs in x86
```shell
grub-install --target=i386-pc /dev/sdX
# this will isnstall grub binaries to bootDrive and runs as x86
# https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/GRUB 
```
